So we've worked in the user experience,
now let's also work on the user experience of logging in because right now if I login,
well I don't get any highlights here and if I do login like this and my password has to be valid, then
my old data is lost.
Now of course this is a great challenge for you
so feel free to pause the video and try this on your own, you have to basically do what we did before
though there is a little extra twist which I'll also show you of course.
So here's your chance to pause the video,
we'll do it together thereafter. Were you successful?
Now let's try this together and we start in the auth controller
but now in post login of course because that is, whoops, up there where we do gather validation results for the
login screen.
Now if I render this response with this error code which you don't have to set as you saw but which is a
good practice to set to be very clear about what went wrong,
if you do all that, then of course you can also pass some old input on this route here.
So old input here would contain the e-mail which we extract up here, there
and of course the password which we extract and pass that in a keys named email and password
back to the view,
you can also set your validation errors if you want and set that to errors array, like this
basically as we did it for the sign up route. There's just one difference,
we also have some errors that stem from us entering an invalid e-mail or password,
so basically when we try to log a user in for which we don't have an entry in the database or where the password does
not match.
Now in such cases since I don't use my validation logic here and since I redirect, to make sure that
we treat this in a uniform way, we should also return our rendering here because in the end we have an
invalid input here as well,
the error message then just is this error message and hence we don't need to flash it anymore so we
can get rid of that flashing. The old input is definitely something we want to keep here as well
and validation errors,
well there we have to add some objects with param and that in this case it could be param email and
param password if you want to make sure you don't show what exactly led to the error
but of course you could also just leave that out and kind of only give out that message,
keep the old values but don't mark anything as red, simply do not give away what exactly failed
if you wanted to do that.
So here I'll just return an error message
and the old input
and now I will copy that again and down there where I also redirect with my error message,
well I basically do it in the same way as up here
and yes you could refactor this in some way. But now with that, if we save that we just have to work
a little bit on the login screen and on the login screen, we of course want to pre-populate these fields
with their old values again and
we do this as you saw with the help of ejs by using old input email here
and then the same for the password, here old email password.
So these two fields, setting the value attribute on these two inputs,
that is what we need to do here to return this old or use this old data
and in the controller we just have to make sure that we set this old data.
We also need to make sure that for the first time we load this with get login,
we also set
the old input,
in this case here to an object where the email is an empty string and the password is an empty string
and I'll set validation errors here to an empty array, so that we don't get an error regarding this not
being found when it's first rendered. And now if I reload this page or
if I go to login page again, this works
and now if I try to login like this, I get an error but the old data is kept
and now if I enter a valid password but one which is invalid, then you see we also keep the old values.
Now we can also add the red borders if we want to by reusing that code from signup.ejs, there
I use that code for setting a css class and I do the same on the login.ejs page.
So there let me split all these fields up and then add the class here,
look for email in this case since I'm on the e-mail input here
and of course let's do the same for the password down there.
Let's split that, add the class and here password is actually correct already.
So now with that, one last check. If I do enter just invalid credentials in the sense of no user is
found for this, then nothing is marked as red
but if I enter something invalid like this where the password is too short,
well then I do give it that red border and this is the setup I'm using here.
Obviously you can adjust this to your requirements.